Thank you, John. I put that at the top
of my agenda because I do use that. That
works good. We'll call the public
hearing to order. And tonight we're
continuing the public hearing from July
15th. The application of Michael
Heckler, 71 Bizola Road, Andover, for a
special permit with site improvements to
operate a homebased landscape business
and construct a two-bay garage attached
to existing dwelling and existing two-
bay garage that is proposed to be
converted to a workshop space.
The application request is made per
section 4.12A2
Rowan 4 and section 23 in the end over
zoning regulations.
So at this point
I was going to turn over to you Mike to
brief us on what new information you've
had since the last night you were
together. Um, I mean, new information
was just all the stuff I had to now
include. Um, and a couple other things I
had to update on the the plan for pretty
much the water
where the water was going to go
drainage. Um
where uh
uh
>> dry well in the basement.
>> Yeah. And then where new sediment and
erosion control would be for that
as well.
Now, were you able to keep those clear
of the septic system by how many feet?
>> Gee, um,
a lot.
Um,
>> over 50.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> You want me to put something up on the
screen, Ryan?
>> We're looking at easily. John, can you
give me control so I can share
or do you want to go to
um
the Heckler application in PNZ and bring
up uh the site
>> and review 81325.
>> Uh you should be you should be able to
do it, Wayne. But I can I can
>> Okay.
Wayne,
>> excuse me. Just hit reclaim host. No,
you don't need to reclaim the host.
Anyone can share.
>> Oh, yeah. You can just share. Hit the
share button.
>> Okay.
>> Share screen. It's the bottom center.
>> All right.
>> It goes. Yeah, we only have two options
here. It's either Yeah. In or out.
>> So,
>> you can't control minus or control plus.
>> Yes. What are they talking talking
about? That uh drywall.
>> Yeah. So, that the drywall over to the
left, I think DW right there. And then
>> yeah, you want me to go?
Well, why don't we start where the uh
where the proposed structure is going to
be?
>> Right there. 30 and 42.
>> 30 by 42 connected to
>> existing
>> the existing what's now going to be a
workshop. the 22 by 24 and the residence
which is this 58
>> 26 there
>> and then there's the uh septic down
there
>> septic is down below
>> which is I would say probably 120 ft
away
>> I think about 70 at least
>> I don't recall but I know it's less than
>> yeah because if you use the science of
the happened to this?
>> Well, looking at the drawing, the septic
tank is 26 ft from the house and
leeching fields are another 67 ft from
the
septic tank. So, you add them together
round numbers
80 something feet.
>> Okay. So, yeah, because the question I
had was if we need to have this relooked
by the sanitarian. It has been looked at
by the sanitary. Okay. if he's taken
>> we we have a we have a B100A
>> okay
>> from E from East Independence
>> and was that uh posted online?
>> Yeah, that's that's part of the package.
It's in there.
>> What else you want to show them, Ryan? I
mean,
>> did we get did we get the list of
equipment?
>> Yes.
>> Yes. Is that
>> that's posted to
let's see that is
come on why is that revised architecture
topographic
I didn't see I didn't see it you know
and uh
oh I just want to make sure that's part
of the public
Which one are we talking about? The list
of equipment. The
>> I know I was in the office when u can't
remember her name when she sent it off.
Okay, I am going to switch screens now.
I hope.
Stop. Share.
Share.
All
right. This Ryan basically,
unless there's something else you gave
me. I mean, not Michael. Um,
>> oh, that was it.
>> This is what you gave me, which was in
response to my letter to you asking for
information. Yes. So,
>> yep.
>> And the previous memo to the last time
which was going to be asked which covers
everything.
>> So,
Two dump trucks, one in the process of
being sold, one Ram pickup, one Tesla,
one mini excavator,
one
>> Morpark
>> Morbark wood chipper, and two 16 ft
equipment trailers. Um,
those are going to be outside, right?
>> Correct. Yep. And under the business
name
>> and and how they're going to dump trash.
Um they are one of them is $2599
so just under CDL they're six wheelers
all of them um or the two of them and
then one of them is 35,000 so they're
under you know your 60 or 70,000 lb
threshold that the town has
>> both are six wheeled
>> both are six wheel
>> so one's like a sixyard
>> yeah one's a six and one's an eight
slash9 or So
135,000.
Yep.
>> It's a municipal heavy spender.
>> 126.
>> 26. Yep.
>> 26K and 35K.
And so where will the two trailers go?
Um the trailer will usually be attached
to the dump truck. Um and then either
either or my Morbar or my Mini will be
attached um on on the trailer. Obviously
Morbark is a is a trailer type unit. So
you pull that. So that would either be
depending on what fits. Obviously I
haven't seen the garage with everything
in it yet obviously. But what size is
that chipper? What? Huh? Maybe what inch
>> the chipper? Um,
it's probably a good 12 ft long. No.
What size wood goes in it? Oh. Oh. Oh.
16. That's big chipper. Police size
chipper.
>> It's an ex municipal. How many tires?
How many actuals on the chipper?
16 ft foot trailer. Is that uh
total length or is that what it can
hold? That's what it hold.
>> So they're longer than 16.
>> Usually they're I would say like with
the neck they're like what 19 or so by
like what eight or nine? Uh standards
usually seven.
And then the mini esavator is uh
£11,000.
Is all that stuff on your property now?
Uhhuh.
The square footage of all that stuff.
Well, it spread out pretty well.
Two acres spreads out pretty good.
The mini excavator is currently on a job
site, but that doesn't take more than
10 foot square foot.
>> And you said that would normally be
Well, last time you said that was going
to be on a trailer park. Correct.
>> Yeah. When it's not on a job site, it
would be in a garage.
>> But you have to put one of the trailers
in the garage, can't stand it.
>> Correct. One of the one of the trailers
would be attached to a truck with the
mini on it.
So, where is all this stuff right now?
So,
if you're looking at my property,
there's two driveways. There's a a
regular driveway. Do you want to pull up
the map?
>> I still
regular driveway I have um next to it is
an easement. Behind that, I have a
little dirt pile that my freight liner,
the 35,000 lb, is sitting on. And then
my Tesla I park in the yard because I
have to charge it. So, I park it next to
the house where charge cable is. And
then the other driveway, I have both
trailers. And then the Kodiak, which is
the 25 26,000lb truck, is parked right
in front of one of the trailers. Um, the
Morbark is right next to those trailers.
So, it's trailer.
Uh,
my Dodge is in the driveway. Isn't there
a lot of grade in the back of your
house? I mean from the front to the back
it's a 40 foot drop.
>> I looked at toe map
>> gradual. Yeah. Um behind
so about 15 ft behind my drive or behind
my garage it starts to drop and then I
would have to do some some decent
retaining for the back of the the new
garage.
>> The new building. Yeah. What's going to
happen to that? And how are you going to
get into the building? Where's the
entrance to that?
the front
in the in the front off the road. Yeah.
So, there's there's two doors front.
So, Liam, why don't you pull up the uh
the picture of the building? Want the
architectural picture?
Okay.
I thought a new architectural building
picture. Yeah. Is that Isn't that the
the old garage?
>> No,
>> that's the new garage. That's the new
one.
>> Well, we'll show it so we can make sure
there's no confusion what we're talking
about here.
>> There's one with like a lean to on the
left. The lean to is the existing
workshop.
It's the doors are moved. So, you're
going to drive in between your house and
your garage now. Correct. So,
the house is to the right.
The new proposed garage is attached to
the house. The lean to is existing
existing garage. What I have right now
now proposed as a workshop. the doors
are going to be removed so that it's now
a two vehicle
garage
um
in total for the property.
Please plan
Senator, does it does it say up there
that this was revised on 814?
>> Yeah, at the top there.
>> Okay. So,
I guess I missed seeing that updated
drawing.
>> Yeah, you would ask to remove the doors.
>> Yep. Oh, I got it.
>> And it has all the dimensions wanted to
So
I was not able to
prepare myself in a satisfactory manner
for tonight because I didn't know where
the answers to all those questions were.
I was looking for a new document then go
back look at all the old ones again
>> and then I didn't see this. Um
>> yeah, this was uploaded as soon as soon
as we got it.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. But that wasn't in the packet. if
you sent out some stuff to the
commissioners and said, you know, here's
a bunch of stuff for this and it was
>> I just sent the link to the to the
online.
I didn't send all the attachments
and I made sure to put a revision date
on them to distinguish them for
everything else that was in there. Yeah,
there's a lot of stuff in there.
Okay. Anyhow, so Scott, that's that's
the photo of the garage between the
current garages.
>> I'd like to see where all this stuff is
going to be parked. I can't imagine a
Freight Liner. Have you ever seen a
Freight Liner? 30 to 8,000 lb Freight
Liner and a Kodiak. So, it's like a
6,500.
>> Yeah. Huge trucks.
>> Yep. So, that's why the doors are 14 ft
high.
>> And two and two trailers, 16 foot
trailers. So, they're really longer than
that by by 20 by 9.
>> Yeah. two of them up to more black
chipper which would take up most of this
area over here.
>> Did you consider renting a space in an
industrial park or we're dumping more
than I
rent?
I can see I pulled up the picture on
Google to see what the house in the
garage look like now. And I can see how
that
hits what was in the middle of above the
two garage doors of that little vent
that's up there now.
>> And then you just continue the roof line
up and get a nice looking plan.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah, it would definitely increase
the value of all the houses around which
as we know everybody likes um because
nobody fights the town when they come
and get appraised.
>> So that's is like a attic up above the
new part.
>> No, that's just a light.
>> Just a light.
>> Uh just a I'm sorry, not a light. Not
just a window. Window window. Yeah.
>> And just to make the commission aware,
this architectural plan does not include
a second floor. Yeah.
>> Right. That's it.
>> So, u So, it's not Yeah. All the
equipment won't fit in the garage.
>> You got those two big trailers that'll
most likely be outside.
>> Yeah. I'll fit what I can for obviously
two vehicles, but I'm not I can't fit.
>> You're selling them.
>> Yeah. I'm selling the Kodiak.
>> So, the Kodiak is gone. It's those are
14 foot high doors.
At least most of his stuff's going to be
off the road.
>> Yeah.
So,
it'll definitely increase the value.
Yeah. So, any house? It's just
residential and lighter.
>> It is. Yeah.
>> It's way up at like the end of
that, right?
>> Yeah. It's like I I remember talking
with Wayne. It's like a different It's a
different code on the on the maps. It's
not like your lakefront.
>> You're right.
>> Lake district, but you're in zone C.
>> Yeah. Which is still the farthest away.
>> Yeah. And and the only thing that has to
do is how much nutrient allocation
>> remediation.
It doesn't have anything to do with no
>> any of the regulations at all.
>> No, they're all the same. Um, so
the only thing that could
um
make a difference about being in the
Lake District is, you know, there's
something in in there that talks about
as of right, you've got a twocar garage
and
>> and no more. You can't modify or attach
to a existing
uh
what they call it? It's it's uh
accessory building. You can't modify
accessory buildings without obviously
permits
>> or special permits in the lakes zone
specifically. Uh and this would be
getting rid of the accessory and
becoming part of the principal structure
all al all together.
Section 14.2
talks about a building attached to the
principal building by a current
passageway or having a common part of a
wall shall be considered an integral
part of the principal structure and not
an accessory building. That's
if I can make this bigger or not.
But it's still an accessory use. Okay.
So then you the other thing I was
looking to see
was the checklist. You the requirement
that the checklist be reviewed
>> with Wayne and Wayne agrees. There's the
checklist. Nice.
actually went over it line by line with
Michael on the 13th
and
I think we got it.
Okay. So,
this might be the first time you've gone
through one of the checklist
where it says very first checklist
>> staff approval over there. You know, I
was hoping to see something that said
you agreed with all of Mike's
assessments on what was NA, what he had,
that sort of thing.
>> That's what my signature is.
>> That's what my scribble there in my
initial initial.
>> Okay.
>> Is that an approval?
>> What is
>> initial?
That's an approved that
>> that's a an acknowledgement that I have
reviewed it.
>> Okay.
>> And you agreed with it?
>> I reviewed it with Michael. I I do agree
with it. Yes.
>> Okay. I'll put that on the record then.
And did we have a letter
requesting any waiverss to any of the
requirements? Um, I'm officially asking
for a A2 uh survey requirement. Wave.
>> Okay. And did you send us a letter? Do
we have a letter for that?
>> No, we do not.
>> Far as I know, I have to just do it on
on the uh
>> closest thing we have.
>> Yeah.
record.
Where's the CA2?
I believe I I believe I did put that in
writing that you need to ask for the
waiver and I did tell them verbally.
Yeah.
Yeah, that doesn't have to be any hard
that just there's two different places
in here. There's only four things for
the application for a home occupation.
One of them is any waiverss requested by
the applicant should be submitted in
writing
not record.
>> Yeah, I was I was under the uh
>> Yeah,
>> we can wait there.
>> Okay. I think with what you've got, we
can do that.
It's always a learning process for me as
we go through these things
>> as it is for me.
>> Hopefully, you would have to do it
to survey.
It's in there.
So for sky and radio the uh
>> is there a regulation that says that?
>> There is
under general provisions 23.2H 2 H. The
commission may upon written request of
the applicant wave the submission of
information set forth in section 23 2B1
through6 site plan which are not
required in order to determine
compliance with the criteria set forth
in this section. So it's it's very clear
and and in fact we did that you know
with the pickle ball court we did not
>> the uh K2 survey as I recall and uh and
the reason was that uh Christine
submitted you in writing the request to
wave
Okay. So, that
that was the information that I was
wanting to make sure we got into
public record.
Well,
>> okay. Do you have anything else that you
wanted to add on that wing?
>> Um,
both me and um Joe Wagner spent some
time with Michael
>> the 13th.
>> When was that? That was last week. Like
uh Wednesday or Thursday last week.
>> Monday. Um
>> going over the site plan.
Joe had some suggestions
specifically around the drywall that
Michael incorporated in in the last
minute at the last minute. Um,
but Joe uh did uh he was put on the
zoning the the zoning permit application
for his sign off and he signed he has
signed off on it.
Okay. Um,
>> I'm just wrestling with uh
>> this is this is a bit crude, but I had
asked Michael to do some math.
>> Yep.
uh in reference to a two-inch rain
event, how much water that would
generate from the new roofs.
And uh
this is what
he submitted.
>> Well, I thought that looked reasonable.
>> Yeah, it's he's done the math as far as
2 in and how many cubic feet and
done some calculations.
Uh, I think in the interest of full
disclosure, there is an existing a
pre-existing
um catch basin
>> on his property
that is somewhere up near where the bus
turnaround is. Correct?
>> Yes, between the bus turnaround and my
driveway. It's more more so next to my
driveway. Um the town
I believe the town before I
>> the town
um installed it because of how much
water from the road comes into my
driveway
>> to help mitigate that.
It dumps more so towards the fence line
and
if required um I could
u attach it to the uh
the uh the drive if request requested
obviously
right Joe Michael and I we we had some
discussions about that and
I don't know if we
We didn't really come up with the
resolution. I I I think what we really
suggested is that Michael made contact
with DPW.
>> Yeah. Which is kind of tough right now
because of the DPW director,
not really being a director right now. A
supervisor filling in for a director.
I've already had contact with him and
and it's not the easiest to schedule
things, but I can do so. um
work that out. I'm not sure.
>> This
of course you can't see it. It's either
big or small. This was a previous site
plan. This was the site plan for when
they built the garage and the house
prior to Michael
and it has uh the ENS. It has the limits
of wetlands and stuff like that. This is
what Michael used to do his site plan.
So the
uh erosion sediment uh controls
are going to be different than what's on
on that plan.
>> We asked Michael to to duplicate what
was done previously in the in that on
that approved site plan.
>> Okay.
>> As far as ENS is concerned. Yeah. And
then Joe asked him to add an additional
silk fence
>> for the drywall
>> where uh near the outlet of of the of
the dry well there um so that during
construction that that didn't contribute
to any sedimentation.
So what what's your what's your timeline
schedule like of this project being that
you know the the thing that I'm
wrestling with is
like to have the written waiver request
>> kind of in it know what you're asking
for and all that
>> and get that tomorrow
>> but that we can't start the deliberation
on your application until we close the
public hearing
>> and after we close that there's more
information was put in there.
>> Yeah.
>> Which I'd like to have that.
>> Okay.
>> So,
as as much as I was hoping to wrap this
up tonight,
is it a huge inconvenience, any
inconvenience, if we continue the public
hearing till the next meeting where we
just get that one piece of paper put in
there, then we close it, go on. Uh
>> the only problem is we're running out of
hot weather, right?
And you just write it. Write out that
letter right now. It's a piece of paper.
>> Yeah, you very well do that.
>> Okay. Yep. Um,
>> very good. That'll
do.
Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Just the highlighted section there is
the sections that you should request
>> relief from.
How should I address it? Planning is
zoning permission.
Yeah.
There you see.
How big is this line?
>> How big is the what?
>> Two two acres or something. 2.0
>> 2.08.
>> Yeah, that's what it says on the
Mrs. El Lake District.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. I think I mean uh you know the
newest house on the lake there
went over you know three ounces from J.
>> Yeah.
>> That was a few acres too.
>> Yeah. So you're you're going to be all
right with putting two freight liners in
the front yard over there, but excavator
or chipper?
>> Well, that's what we're talking that's
what we're going to talk about when we
deliberate. You know, we're not to that
point yet.
>> It's the same district.
>> Oh, absolutely.
>> There's there's another line over there
the same size. I want to hold off till
we close the public hearing and then
we'll talk about this
Hello.
>> Hello. You're not writing an album,
Michael.
>> He's got he's got it here. I try.
>> Planning and zoning commission. And I'm
Michael Eckler at 71 Bizola Road
requesting a waiver of the A2 survey for
the garage edition on the property. This
waiver is covered under section 23.2 D1
through6. Sincerely, Michael.
That's good. So that is read into the
public record. We have we have it in
writing.
Do any of the uh
Wayne, do you have any other questions
or comments on the application at this
point?
>> No, I do not.
>> Well, if you're close after sharing of
the screen so we can uh you see who's
who's and then uh
any of the commission members have any
questions for Michael at this point?
Amarie,
>> I do not. Thank you.
Scott
with the public hearing.
>> We're still in the public hearing. Yeah.
Okay. And
Andreas.
Going back to Lean Hutchinson, do you
have any questions at this point before
we close the public hearing?
>> No, I don't.
>> Okay.
Um,
then at time
7:41, public hearing is closed.
>> Um, is it
Okay, time 7:41. We will call the
regular meeting to order.
Roll call and seating alternates. I've
got Ann, Scott, Leanne,
and myself as regular members. Patrick
is not here tonight. We've got
alternates Ann Marie and Andreas.
And I think Andreas was seated most
recently. So I will seat and Marie
for Patrick.
>> Sounds good. Thank you.
>> The uh
next up is additions or changes to the
agenda. Anybody have anything for that?
Okay.
Moving on to public speak. Anybody from
the public uh want to make any comments
on anything that's not on the agenda
tonight?
>> Quick question. Who who do we have
anything on ordinances on like horse
manure being left behind?
>> Not that I aware.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> It's an issue on bear swamp.
Well,
there's not an ordinance. There are
words about that in the, you know,
section 20, I think it is, the keeping
of animals where it talks about not
having a nuisance with manure and that
kind of stuff. So, there is something in
there about that.
>> All right. Follow me up.
>> I'm curious.
found something.
>> They just leave the manure on the road
and they ride.
>> Oh, you're talking about the honey wagon
going going back and going
down wheeling and
>> coming up bear swarm going on the trail
coming back. Just trails of horsemen all
the time on the road.
>> Not from those horse farms there.
>> Probably
>> people out riding me riding it down the
road.
>> Yeah. Just don't cut up.
>> Oh. Oh, I got you. I got you. This is
proof all over.
>> Okay.
Um
I guess just for completion uh in case
there's somebody out there that might be
interested in why we're not talking
continuing the agro tourism
uh public hearing tonight. Uh Mr. Fitch
who's not in town. I see he's joined us
remotely for a different discussion but
uh he asked and we agreed that we would
defer the future discussion uh on agro
tourism until he could he was back
available to attend a meeting and uh and
so we put that off until next month. So
that's why we didn't do anything in the
uh
public hearing section on that.
The uh
next up uh on the agenda is old business
in the plan of conservation of
development. Uh John, I'm going to turn
that over to you.
>> Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Um so John
Gusowski, town planner. I'm also here uh
with my colleague Janal Clark who's been
working on the plan. Um we are nearing
the end of our initial drafting of the
chapters. Um we have this evening uh and
that was distributed yesterday uh
midday. Um the climate change and
resilience chapter which is the last
substantive chapter that we're going to
be proposing uh or or sharing with you.
Um this is a relatively straightforward
chapter um in which we we the focus is
basically on um Andover's civic
infrastructure and um some of the
challenges that the next decade of uh
climate change and and um you know
increasing storm frequency and intensity
uh is going to bring to the community or
may bring to the community and and that
we need to prepare prepare for. Um so
there is um a bit of background on that.
Some of the efforts that um were
undertaken uh some of the natural
resources there's there's a little bit
of crossover with this chapter and the
sort of the natural resources
conservation chapter. Um we talked a
little bit about some of the um key uh
municipal facilities in town. Uh a lot
of this chapter is um relies on work
that was done statewide or regionally.
The capital region natural hazards
mitigation plan. um we we draw a lot
from that and talking about sort of the
intersection of um development uh of the
community and its sort of natural um
features its its its streams
particularly in Andover, but as well as
um the buffers that that Andover has um
to buffer some of the effects of climate
change and things that should be
protected like our large forest blocks,
our protected farmlands, um and our our
stream corridors as all as critical to
our sort of natural infrastructure and
and ability to to um buffer against uh
climate related vulnerabilities. Um we
talk uh we make reference to the state
guidelines on soil erosion,
sedimentation and storm water quality.
um again to to focus on both current
effects and aligning our regulations and
our development patterns towards um
increased storm frequency and intensity.
And particularly in the storm water
management guide um which was updated
last year um they increased the design
storm. Uh it used to be, you know, um
storm water management systems had to
capture sort of the first flush, the
first inch that that was increased to
1.3 in um that they recommend being
treated on site and and you know we
recommend that you know certainly our
regulations should should follow along
with that. Um and then we talk about how
uh you know our our particularly our
roads, bridges, culverts, you know, our
storm drainage infrastructure um is
critical because again you know there
are lots of natural hazards out there um
but um storm related flooding events um
norers you know like like peak peak
rainstorms um tend to be the most um
likely hazards that that Andover faces
over the next decade.
Um, we talk about the particularly the
one the one municipal facility that is
probably at most risk that that we
highlight in here um is and I'm
scrolling to it. Sorry. Is the town
garage um largely because of its
location right along the the Hop River
I'm sorry um yeah Hop River and the and
the flood plane associated with that. Um
you know as a as a potentially uh
vulnerable um critical facility. that's
something that that should be looked at.
Um, and then we get to the aims and
objectives. And hopefully I should have
asked initially if everyone can see
this. I'm assuming you can see the
screen. Um, and then everyone has a has
a copy of this. Um, and the aims and
objectives again are fairly
straightforward. um like continuing
strategic investment, focusing on those
those elements um that are most
vulnerable to increased storm frequency
and intensity um and and other climate
resilience uh planning for municipal
facilities.
And then a lot of this has to do with um
linking because Andover obviously, you
know, we're we're responsible for our
own facilities, but but we are we are
part of a region. We are part of a
state. we are part of a you know a
multi-state area that that really sort
of functions together when it comes to
natural hazards. Um and so you know the
collaboration that the organizations
with resources CROG the state you know
circa de department of public safety um
are really the the the key stakeholders
and the key elements that we need to
coordinate with. Um
and then and then you know some specific
action items again making investments in
those critical most critical um
vulnerable resources following along
with state resources and planning
guidance documents um particularly you
know things like the storm water
management guide where we should be you
know increasing our regulations um to to
respond to the um the guidance that are
provided by these these um studies and
reports. um continuing to uh prioritize
the natural hazards mitigation actions.
Um and then you know things like low
low impact development, cluster
development. So we are reducing our
carbon footprint and our development
footprints um to retain sort of the
natural resilience that that Andover has
and then to support the efforts of of
sustainable Andover because those groups
their ongoing work really tends to focus
on this stuff. Uh well, so um that's a
very brief overview of this. Um I'm
happy to to answer questions or take
some input on this. Um and I'll also
note that we forwarded, I believe last
Friday, um the working revision of the
prior chapter, the quality of life
chapter, um that had some significant
revisions based on conversations with um
the school superintendent. We had very
productive conversations um to sort of
reframe how some what some of the data
was telling us about school enrollment
and some of the financial decisions that
might result from that. Uh and we also
recently got um Jed some some uh very
useful comments from yourself. Uh and
we're we're incorporating those into uh
a revised draft also. So I will stop
there. I can take this screen share off
unless someone wants to go through
specific questions or comments.
I do have uh a couple and
>> okay
>> I noticed well we didn't talk drought at
all and it's been a couple years since
we experienced
>> that. I was trying to think of how we
would do that since everybody in Andover
was on a well we were kind of on your
own for drought maybe but should drought
be
covered in this
>> I think that's a probably a good idea.
Yeah. Um
I because I do think and and yes that's
that of of the natural hazards that that
we are facing particularly as the
climate changes you know it's it's those
two extremes it's it's flooding on one
end and drought on the other that that I
think we really um need to need to think
about. Yeah.
on uh going back to the the very first
page uh the second paragraph on the
critical infrastructure you had listed
the Andover Police Department
and I was thinking you know we've got a
resident but
>> I don't know that that's worth
>> yeah that's fair
>> he's got a room here in the building uh
so with the town hall he's kind of
included there.
>> Sure.
>> Then I'm surprised that we had the the
library in that listing. I know we do uh
shelters and uh stuff for cooling
centers and that kind of stuff here and
you know this we can use the school and
we got the senior center but
I'm not aware of any plan that we have
to use the library for any of that.
We'll see here, here, there.
>> Yeah.
>> And the generator's going in there,
right? So, he's really beefing this up,
which I think is good. But,
>> so I didn't I didn't think the library
needed to be in that list.
If they
>> they had their heart broken because we
took them out.
>> Well, we can we can revisit that. Yeah,
they're they're they're covered in
quality of life. So hopefully that's
that's the uh the the reference they
would appreciate more.
>> So John, what is zones of risk?
>> Those yellow circles right at the end
last
>> Sure.
Uh Jan, do you want to do you want to
take a stab at that a little bit?
>> Yeah. So essentially these were um noted
in the Andover annex. So essentially um
shared risks would be um weather risks
and social risks. So anywhere in these
areas um are associated with either
flooding um and then this is an area
where people frequent. And so there are
impacts that would not only impact the
land but also the people who are in that
area and that's essentially what this
map is showing. Um and then was the most
critical area noted in the regional
plan. So I thought it would be important
to include in this section.
>> Yeah. Maybe an explan explanation of
what that is.
>> Okay. Sure. And I yeah that let's see
um did we cover that? I I thought there
was a reference to it. Okay.
>> Go ahead.
>> I lightly um touched on it, but I'll
make sure to make the explanation stand
out
>> in the action items. I was
probably uh in there somehow, but we
didn't have any action to do anything
with chapter 10, which is our
flood prone zone.
And and I know one of the actions that
we're trying to take
>> Yeah. Now,
>> is to prevent residential construction
in the floodprone zone. So, I was kind
of thinking that might be nice to have
this is in the action items so that we
can have it done. Maybe we could have an
an actual map.
>> Oh, okay. Yeah.
>> Yeah, that'd be nice. That's a good
idea. Yeah, we have Yes. Okay.
>> Well, we have it on the zoning map.
>> Yeah, we do. But, you know, we've got
this chapter here. We got an awful lot
of uh charge in there. I think uh having
showing
>> cuz we saw flooded area.
>> It's probably in there and but you can't
see Andover. It has I I thought that map
was probably the whole Crag. Maybe it's
bigger than that, but
>> you're right. No, that was the Crag
region regional map. Uh we have a couple
>> there, but yeah, you can see the Hanburg
River Valley there. Yeah, we can we can
we can do a we can do a zoom up a zoom
in of that certainly
>> would be nice.
>> And then I also thought there should be
an action to to do something to uh
change to 1.3 in instead of the 1 in
rain
>> for capturing.
Well, you were just saying a blow up of
Andover, right? Is that what you said?
>> Yes, it was blow that gap up to 500.
>> I would like to see that, too.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, under the aims and objectives, it
says continue to explore investment in
public water in wastewater. Does that
mean waste water, I guess, is sewers?
Were we thinking we should be looking at
putting public water system in?
>> Yeah. Well, so that's I mean, and that's
that's again Yeah. Um that well public
water is means you know like instead of
private wells and wastewater would mean
sewer.
>> Um
>> right
>> and and yeah public water again to to to
mitigate against drought and and then to
also allow for increased density in
certain areas rather than rather than
continuous fraud.
>> But we didn't we we didn't hit too hard
on that. I think, you know, because I
think we recognize the the the
challenges of cost and and density uh to
justify, but I think it's an important
conversation to continue.
>> Okay,
that was all my comments. Any anything
else? Ann,
>> no, you covered mine.
>> Scott,
>> Andreas,
>> no.
>> Leanne,
>> Ambry?
No.
>> Okay. I guess that does it then, John.
Thank you.
>> So, yeah. So, what we'll do is um we'll
forward out I'll take this one, forward
out um a revision, and next month we're
we're going to present um basically the
implementation. uh like as Jed as you've
mentioned a couple of times you'd like
all those action items to to you know be
put into a tabular form so we can kind
of track um you know the progress and
priority. So that'll be we'll we'll
compile all of the draft chapters and
add the implementation
um and and we'll begin to discuss that.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. And if again if anyone looks at
this over the next couple of weeks and
realizes they wanted to add a comment or
whatever, please please let me know so
we can incorporate that. And I thank you
for for your input. I think we're making
good progress.
>> Next up is uh new business action on
planning zoning permit 251
special permit application for Michael
Hecart. So,
um, we've got the information, you know,
uh,
I think Michael has certainly done a
great job trying to deliver everything
we've asked. U, there there was a lot of
stuff that that I think we we've gotten
it there.
the uh
the question I uh I wrestle with a
little bit and uh
is, you know, and I think what Scott was
alluding to. Uh you when does a home
business get to be bigger than a home
business?
I think that was your comment, wasn't
it, Scott?
>> Yes, I guess. And
>> that takes up all the square footage in
that lot. I'm sorry.
Or a lot of it.
>> It is. And uh certainly certainly go
over the diesel,
all the oil
collection of that, all that kind of
stuff in the the Lake District.
I mean, we before we've talked about
people uh having their trucks overnight,
how many gallons of fuel they have. Now
we're talking about having, you know,
excavators to,
you know, it's in there
in the Lake District.
>> Yeah. People have three, four trucks in
there.
>> They're not supposed to, Andreas,
>> but they are there. I think I commend
him for building this proposing to build
this building which will then hold these
vehicles instead of having them outside.
Yeah.
>> And most of them will be inside which I
think is a great idea.
>> Yeah. He's trying to make the place look
better. I mean
>> he's going to sell one of his trucks,
right? So
>> I mean you know he's you're pretty
>> he lives at the very top of the Lake
District. It's not even I mean I get it.
his district, but he's trying to clean
up, you know. So, it's I think his
intentions are good and he's going to
put a nice addition to his house,
improve everybody's uh property value,
maybe increase their taxes. I don't
know.
>> Yeah, one of the trucks is not being
used because one of them is to replace
>> the one that I obviously have is under
the company, so I have to list them. Um,
yep. But but Scott's, you know, got a
point that we do and I have not reviewed
through that. It talks about storing if
if you have uh the fuel tank on a truck.
>> Yep.
>> And do you have one of those?
>> So I reviewed it.
>> Yeah, it's it's in the he he put the
numbers in the
>> in response to my questions. Um the dump
trucks have 60 gallon tanks, pickup 28
gallon fuel tank. The excavator and
chipper have 16 gallon tanks.
>> Okay. On them. But is there another
external tank that you have now?
>> Three tanks.
>> Um
>> I can put it on the screen if you want.
>> Nope. as long as uh you know we've we've
gone through because you know there are
some limitations on that in
>> yeah I I know I know the verbiage says
you know you can't have over a certain
amount um of fuel capacity on a vehicle
um and I I frankly think that's very old
standard compared to most vehicles
nowadays I mean you buy a a 3500
you know Chevy pickup truck it's going
to have 30 40 gallon tank
which is over what the town allows the
lake district. One pickup truck, you're
already out.
>> They're already they're only talking
about additional storage. Those
regulations.
>> Okay. Okay.
>> And Andrea, I want to some be very clear
about this. Okay. At the lake, there's
lots that are two acres that are right
on the lake front. Now,
>> I used to live there.
>> Yeah. I live on extension west. So quick
the it is in the Lake District
the uh
so here's here's what's allowed and this
this talks about uh
special permit uses in the ARD and
handover lake district. So it combines
all the residential
places. Smaller scale business where all
work activity takes place offsite.
Administrative services make take place
at the dwelling. Vehicles and equipment
are stored at the dwelling. So
so again we're you you get into a
discussion of is it a smaller scale
business or larger scale business. if
they were in the
special permits in the business and
industrial zone
the same area it says larger scale
business where the majority of the
activity takes place offsite but
accounting vehicles and equipment is
stored at the dwelling so those are the
two things um you certainly got you got
a lot of stuff there I uh I don't know
where that line is between large and
small
>> I know you had a question about that
prior.
>> Yeah.
>> That's why this is just a part-time, you
know, I work for the town of Vernon.
>> Yep.
>> Full-time.
>> Uh so this I mean there's no possible
way I could make it a full-time or a uh
a large scale. And if I did make it a
large scale, you know, let's say I hired
people, whatot,
I would have more equipment than you're
right, Scott, than my lot could hold. At
that point, I would be forced to rent
out something or buy a different
property or or whatever it may be. But
at this point, vehicles that need to be
inside to shelter them from, you know,
creating more problems to the property,
you know, whether it be hydraulic leaks,
because that naturally happens, diesel
fuel leak, because that naturally
happens, oil leaks, that naturally
happens with any vehicles. keeping them
inside, keeping it contained by concrete
is much safer than dirt.
>> Yeah. So,
>> so
>> I agree.
>> But I did struggle a little bit with
the, you know, the letter you submitted
to us that talked about, uh,
you know, the appropriateness
and and it says the garage workshop will
have no commercial activity such as
customer visits or on-site operations.
Got that? Storage of equipment is
consistent with residential use of my
property and complies with handover
zoning regulations
including section 4.6 4.8 which
does talk about trailers and that but I
don't know what that has to do with the
home occupation. I probably
equipment is used offsite to generate
income is stored on my property only
when not as use
so that doesn't uh count for the size of
the business is essentially
>> we struggle with that a little bit we
have we have a lot of gray area that is
we can uh you know sort that out for
ourselves there but but that's how u
I I think when when you're talking about
the equipment that is part of your
business, even though you're only doing
the the bookkeeping in that in a small
portion of the house there.
>> Yeah.
>> But of course, it's not like I'm uh
selling trucks, buying trucks.
>> I got you.
>> Yep. So,
>> I promise for that. So,
Leanne, did you have any questions or
comments uh for the commission at this
point?
>> Um, I have a question, but I'm not sure
how to formulate it. So, can you circle
back to me in a minute and I'll keep
thinking?
>> Yep. Okay. And Marie, we'll give you a
chance.
Uh, no. It looks like he did his
homework. I don't have any questions.
Thank you.
>> Okay.
Um,
I can't remember if we gave you a shot
in or not. I We've been talking about
some of this stuff here, but uh,
>> uh, well, something that's maybe not
related is I'm just thinking how did the
lake district go so far out from the
lake at various points? I I don't know
how that
>> Well, so I don't know how we came up
with that exact footprint either.
>> It's the drainage.
>> You would No. Well,
>> it's the watered the drainage area.
>> I would have thought that the lake
district would have been the watershed.
>> The wershed is bigger than the lake
district.
>> It's
I don't know why those two don't line
up. They don't. And uh
>> if the land district was bigger than the
waterershed, I'd have a problem with
that. But since it's a little bit
smaller and it's it's uh you know quite
big
and that's why our nutrient allocation
stuff for Lake District goes outside the
Lake District to to cover the watershed
a little bit. Um but that's that's as
much as I got of an answer there.
Well,
>> otherwise I have no no problems with
this plant.
The other thing that uh
you know once once we build once we
allow this huge garage to be built there
you there there's going to be nothing
here that says if if he moves out and
expands the business and goes someplace
else you we're not obviously going to
tear down the garage. So that is part of
the Lake District forever more. I know
there's some other inconsistencies in
the Lake District that uh um
I don't know how we got to where we are,
but uh the we are where we are and uh
and what he's asking for
doesn't seem inconsistent with that.
Wayne, you have anything else for us at
this point?
No, I'm leaving it up to the commission.
You are I'm just tired.
>> John, you got any uh thoughts for us
here?
>> Uh no, I I think I'm with Wayne on this
one. Um yeah, I do and I think Jed, your
point is well taken that this is, you
know, once it's once it's built, it's
going to be there for, you know, a
period of of 30, 40, 50 years. Um but uh
you know I I
my sense is he's he's you know given
given the appropriate thought to to both
resource protection in terms of uh
spillage drainage the lake and and the
character of the community based on his
design. So, um, yeah, I I'm okay with
it.
>> Large, it's not a tiny tiny lot of the
large.
>> And so,
one of the things that we do get to do
with the special permit is we get to
take into consideration,
you know, the the characteristics of the
lot, which for the Lake District 2acre
lot, that's a pretty good size lot.
There are other ones. There are some
that are bigger than that at Lake
District, but uh you know, it's not like
an eighth of a an acre that we have
down, you know, on the lake itself. The
other uh thing that's sort of unique to
where Mike is is that it's kind of
almost at the end of the road. There's
not a lot of traffic that's going by
Mike's house to uh to see the stuff
that's out there. And I do think that
the neighbors uh appreciate the fact
that we're reducing the amount of stuff
that's laying around and hopefully uh it
looks nice and neat and uh all that kind
of stuff when we get to where we want to
go here. There is one letter of support
in the file.
>> Yep. I I saw that and uh I'm sure that's
the guy who's tired of looking at all
the stuff parked outside at this point.
She's really nice. All that stuff is
going to be put in that garage. Huh?
>> Not everything.
>> It's It's not. But it's certainly going
to be cleaner and neater than it is now.
>> Yeah.
Then and I don't think we we have ever
required
all the equipment from a home occupation
to be in a garage.
>> Well, I know that when with a home
occupation, if there's extra parking, it
has to be screened from the neighbors.
Okay. Um
I
I think from walking by uh the house up
there there there is some pretty well.
Yeah.
I don't know particularly about that.
People park on a road. We're actually
parking on Lake Road constantly. Not far
from your house. You know, literally.
You know which house I'm talking about?
>> The women that crash into the cars
almost every time.
>> Yeah. Me, too. She parked his car right
under doesn't
>> Yeah.
>> He doesn't Yeah. Got a little
>> cube thing.
>> Yeah. Cube thing that he puts his really
old SUV or whatever that English SUV
that he's got over there. These guys.
>> No, I wasn't even talking about that. I
was talking about
>> another one. Yeah, there's a few of them
>> talking a little farther down.
>> Yes, I almost hit him.
>> That's either here or there. Yeah,
that's probably grandfathered in before
we
>> probably
how how you can have a house without a
driveway. I don't know. But that's not
that's not what we're talking about.
>> Okay. So,
I think
>> Jen more.
>> Somebody had a comment. Oh, Leanne. Yes,
we were gonna circle back to Leanne. So,
>> yes. Were you finished? I was just going
to comment, but I wasn't sure if you
were finished. If
>> I'm pretty close to getting finished, go
ahead.
>> Um, I just have a procedural question um
for you or Wayne or someone. Um, I
believe there was an application
before ZBA from this applicant. Is there
any relationship between that and this
application, this public hearing
application?
>> Um, there probably is and uh I will try
to explain that point to the best of my
ability. And so, uh, Mike initially put
in, uh, he was going to build the garage
that we looked at with two stories and
all that stuff. And the zoning the
zoning agent disapproved that for a
couple of reasons.
uh one at least what's written written
in the
um write up from the the ZBA that I read
uh uh it talked about
I can't remember if it addressed the the
issue of a twocar garage you know or not
and this was going to be more than a
twocar garage and uh
I had come through the uh
the issue where you can have a twocar
garage as a right in the Lake District.
It's silent on the special permit maybe
that uh allows you to have more than
that.
But I think because it talks about as of
right if it's brought forward in a
special permit, it could be. And that is
not what Mike did initially. he was not
going the special permit route.
There was uh some discussion about
auxiliary accessory use,
not accessory building, but accessory
use. And it's in the same spot in the
definition.
Um
the garage square footage was so much
bigger than the house square footage
and
the uh if if uh the home business is
going to be accessory to the principal
use which is his dwelling there that
would infer that the accessory use
should be smaller
and that's where Mike took uh took a
different point of view and said oh but
all this storage stuff isn't really the
business the business is my desk where
we do the bookkeeping and that I'm not
sure Can I buy that one way or another?
But that was part of the discussion
then. And then the third piece that I
didn't see written up in any of the uh
discussion, but was really germanine is
I didn't put in a special permit for the
home occupation that he needed. And
clearly by our regulations for what he's
asking for, he needs a special permit.
So he was denied because he did not have
a special permit application in
which one of those you know which how
all that boiled out I don't know but you
take all those things into account and
the ZBA upheld the zoning uh enforcement
officer's decision that he couldn't do
what he asked to at that point in time.
That's why Mike came back to it with a
special permit because that that is
allowed uh in our regulation by special
permit. Um
there could be some concern about the
architectural blending in with the
neighborhood uh of the big garage next
to the smaller house. Uh that's uh
that's what we as the commission get to
decide on on do we think this is a good
thing to do or uh not a good thing to do
and u that be that but that's what I
took away because I was very reluctant
to come and
support something that the zoning
enforcement officer had already turned
down and the ZBA had turned down without
understanding why it was they did that
because you know that's they were
operating in their purview here and I
think by covering the different items
with a special permit I think uh that
that answers that allows us that
latitude that the zoning enforcement
officer or the ZBA neither one of them
had. So that's my my thought on go
through that
>> and I would point out that in my
conversations with attorney grants
that the ZBA the the initial ZBA
initial application the subsequent ZBA
appeal and upholding the uh denial
decision and this special permit
application really are two separate
things.
We understand they're related, but they
are
>> they are separate. Michael has a right
to
>> to come back and go and and go the way
he went.
>> Did that answer for you, Leanne?
>> Yes. Thank you. Because that's because I
had um as I said, I was trying to
formulate the question and that's really
why I wanted to use the word
relationship. So, I think you've both um
um given a lot more information.
>> Yeah. No, I was uh you know, I would
never never want to be put in that
position where I uh would uh be
going over what the ZBA and the zonian
official had already done. And I think
we're we're clear of that by going the
special permit route here. And for the
record, I have no objection to what
Michael's proposing
that with this application.
Okay. So,
uh, Andreas, you can't uh make a motion,
can't vote. Anybody on the commission
want to make a motion
with respect to this application? We
want to think about that motion and and
what it might
contain.
>> We could and that would be
>> Do we want to del because is that
something that can be deliberated or
>> um so
one of the options we have is we can
secure the deliberation for tonight.
We've got 65 days to deliberate on on
the answer and uh
we can Wayne and I can get together and
come up with what we think are
conditions of approval that would go
along with with an application.
>> I um
it's my opinion that that's something we
ought to take advantage of.
>> Okay.
I I would like and and I'm going to
include Michael in this too. U we I I
would like to see that if if we have a
motion to approve that it really locks
Michael down into the current conditions
and without
um any expansion of what's going on
there.
>> Yeah.
>> With all due respect.
>> If if that's the commission's
>> Well, I'd certainly uh
happy to go that way and and normally I
get myself in trouble when we don't
>> but
>> I I I could have prepared a motion for
the commissions.
>> And
do any of the commission members that
are seated have any concerns that they
would like to uh voice at this point for
conditions of approval that we haven't
already that and and we haven't really
talked any conditions of approval going
into this. Uh I don't know that there
will be many. We've got a couple of
standard conditions that we can put on.
>> Right.
>> That but as far as other things, anybody
have any
>> probably amount of trucks, amount of
vehicles, whatever you guys came up
with.
>> Yep.
>> Right. That
>> that Yeah.
>> Right. all the square footage which I
already went over it and it's way over
what the building can hold but hold it
to what it's supposed to be inside the
building right as much as you can.
>> Yep.
>> Right. That's why he's doing it. And if
he has a list of what he has now, it's
going to have to stay with that list.
Right. That's what's being approved.
>> Correct.
>> Yes.
That's my thinking is is that that
really we like where this stuff's going
to be parked when it's not in the
building,
you know, and I know that there's
supposed to be screening when you have
the homebased business for parking.
Anything that's extra is supposed to be
>> okay we'll make a
>> and we'll bring we'll bring to the next
meeting a motion with provisions of
approval. Uh we'll make a mo we'll make
a motion to do that motion and then we
have discussion on it and and we'll
we'll go that route at that point. The
extra parking where that's going to be
located,
>> right?
>> Yeah.
>> So that doesn't turn into a
circus for the neighbors.
>> Okay. Yeah.
So is the motion to or
>> there is no motion. Right. So so
>> I think we're done with the discussion
for tonight. We'll we'll continue
deliberation at uh the next meeting.
And so that's all you've got for
tonight.
Now the let me just uh
>> do you know J
>> so
a fellow neighbor um who
has a landscape business landscape
business is growing. He is uh I think
going to be uh at some point talking to
us about
uh building something uh
soon to be if not already owner of uh
>> yes
>> the the Christmas tree park down
>> parcel right down the street from you.
>> Okay.
>> Looking to build looking to build a
little one one unit industrial park at
this point. I don't know if you would
consider with less than you make a year
getting uh
getting making making that a two
>> right now. You're very close.
>> Yeah, it it just almost seemed ideal,
but but that's what Jake is going to
talk to us about.
>> We'll reset coming. Okay, very good. So,
I wanted to make sure you at least knew
that opportunity was available to you.
It might be a better way to go than than
what you're looking at here. I'll let
you decide that. And and now you know
legit.
>> I can talk about parking here. All
right.
>> Next item up for business here is review
of the lot line adjustment between the
Finch family farm route 6 property and
Lake Road LLC
Lake Road property.
Um,
so I have it up on the screen and
um I do have I do have paper copies here
because I I knew that screen was so
bunch less than
satisfactory satisfying
able to make that bigger on the screen
there.
>> I can make it bigger but then you're
only going to see parts of it.
>> Yes.
I don't know who to hand I'll hand this
over to Jake. Hi Jake. Oh so
>> that so for the uh Jake purpose of the
discussion tonight
you know um who owns the property right
this minute?
>> Uh Ryan Fish.
>> Ryan Fish. Okay. And then
the uh Ben Franklin plumbing is looking
to get a little carve out. Uh
Wayne, can you just go on the screen
there? Point. Oh yeah, John can do it
with his cursor. A little carve out that
uh we're looking about adjusting the lot
line so that uh Ben Franklin can get a
little bit bigger.
>> So we we'll have we have several things
few things going on here. Um,
Ryan, you're on. You're on. You can hear
me, right, Ryan?
>> Yep, I can hear you guys.
>> Okay, let me jump in if if I'm if I'm
going off the reservation here.
>> Okay.
>> Um,
so, uh, Ryan Fitch is, uh, the, as we
all know, the property's been for sale.
It's a big sign out there. uh
Ben Franklin Plumbing, uh Andrew and
Stephen Minuchi
and Ryan and uh maybe I'll I'll let you
tell the story.
>> Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So, basically, can you
hear me, guys?
>> Yeah.
>> All right. So, yeah. So, um, Andy and
and his brother approached me and they
wanted to extend their line, um, when
the property was up for sale. Um, and
that's basically what we came to
agreement.
allowing us an easement from Lake Road
to the property um in exchange and some
dollars for uh extending their lot line
from their building to um the roadway
that comes up from uh Route 6 that we
use for the Christmas tree sales. Um
Jake then actually approached me as well
uh interested in land um and
um you know so he is actually going to
be taking over the rest of the land um
and uh again allowing an easement as
well from Route 6 for um the Bandicoo as
well. So they're both helping each other
out uh with a double entry and exit. Um,
generally, uh, we were told that, you
know, there's just a lot line adjustment
for Manukuchi's. Uh, there shouldn't be
that much, um, that goes into that. And
then, uh, the survey was done, uh, for
the rest of the property, uh, for Jake's
for Jake's business.
>> So, Ryan, can you explain the um,
I guess the the the flow here? Uh, is
the lot line adjustment with you and
>> Yes.
>> Jake takes over the rest or purchases
the rest?
>> Yeah. Two separate transactions.
>> Okay. With you.
>> With me.
>> Okay. Okay. Gotcha. Um, unfort I I did
invite uh Benis to be on the call. I I
they they were out of town. Um they
Andrew did say he was gonna try and be
on the call remotely, but it doesn't
appear as though they are here.
>> Yeah, they they we spoke to them. Um my
my realtor spoke to them and my attorney
spoke to them. They're they're actually
out of the country, they said. Um so
they were going to try to get on, but
unfortunately they didn't make it.
>> Um I did have
email exchange with with the attorney on
this. Uh the attorney is the one,
attorney Branch is the one that suggest
suggested that I bring this to the board
for review. This is not a public
hearing. Uh it's it's just
forformational
purposes and for the commission to um
ask questions if if they would like
it. It was it has been suggested that I
could just have approved this on my own.
Uh but Pu because this affects a special
permit
that was issued to the Metis when they
originally constructed
um Protek
which is prior to Ben Franklin um that
the commission should just uh get eyes
on it. Um, from my perspective, this is
this is a good thing for the Menuchi to
expand out in into there. It it's going
to relieve them, relieve a lot of
pressure on that small little lot that
they have now.
Um,
as we know, there is an existing ongoing
zoning violation. A stop work order was
issued. They stopped work, but
remediation has yet to begin. in my
discussions with Andrew and Stephen um
by expanding uh by adding this
additional property
that that will uh allow them to move
stuff in into there and and work on
remediating the zoning violation that
currently exists,
which is I think pretty obvious. It's
pretty evident that that they did some
excavations along the embankment, the
rail trail embankment that went outside
the
um outside the special permit that was
issued.
As far as Jake, I'll let Jake talk about
what what
his plans might be for the for his
portion of the property.
there. Again, I'm hoping that this will
go a long ways towards uh
updating a zoning violation
regarding a home occupation, a special
permit
that was
>> Yeah. So, um
>> electric
>> basically we have, you know, outgrown
our current area. um as I'm sure
everybody here knows. Um so we're having
a very hard time keeping everything
inside the property lines, you know. Um
I know people park on the road there. Uh
my neighbor constantly parks on the
road. Um but anyways, so adding this,
you know, piece of land to the business
will
drastically reduce what I have at the
property on Mar Valley um at my current
residence, which I have the special
permit for. So, basically, we're going
to be using one section of this
property. You know, we're going to be
clearing the trees out, putting down
probably a milling pad, and just using
it for kind of a layown yard for
vehicles, um, trucks. I do have at some
point plans to put up a uh building. The
size of that is to be, you know,
determined. Um, but there is a thought
of putting up a building, commercial
building for the business um, down the
road. I don't currently have the funds
to do that, but that is kind of a plan
of ours at some point in time. Um, but
basically right now we're looking to
just purchase it and, you know, cut out
a big area so we can park trailers and
trucks and vehicles and kind of have our
uh, you know, probably have a few
shipping containers down there just for
inside storage for the time being. Um,
since there's no current buildings on
the property or anything of that nature.
going to make a have a easement through
there off of Lake Road to get into that
piece of property inside there.
>> Yes. So, there is a there's an easement
on both ends. So, we have one um through
Andy's driveway there and then he's
going to have one through our Route Six
driveway. um that easement. We're
probably not going to be using that at
the time. Uh just because I do plan on
keeping that whole front section, you
know, full of Christmas trees at the
moment. Um we don't plan on using that
right now. So, there probably won't be
any access road for us through our
property from that easement anytime
soon. But yes, there is an ement there
just in case, you know, or it's easier
to
>> come in and out of the property instead
of lake. Yeah. or instead of Route Six.
Yes. Um and we do have access on the
backside on Merit Valley as well, but
with that low bridge, it's only 116 I
think it is. Um larger vehicles and
larger trucks cannot make it under that
bridge. So having the access off of six
andor, you know, from uh the Manuchi's
driveway there is going to be very
helpful.
>> Yeah, the future tree you could use that
once piece between the road and the and
the Dollar General to put something else
there.
>> Yeah. Yeah. At some point, at some
point, we would want to, you know, not
necessarily break up the lot anymore
than it is, but keep our section and
then have another development or another
set of buildings for possible rental of
garages, you know, uh, for other
businesses,
especially in the Andover area, because
there's really nothing in the Andover
area for anybody to go to. You know, as
we all know, there's no rental space
here. Um, Columbia, Columbia is the
closest one. Um, and they fill up pretty
quickly. You know, those garages are
always packed over there. So, at some
point there is hopes to, you know, after
we get our portion squared away to at
least have another set here and then
maybe on the other side of the gas line.
The property is kind of funky the way
it's set up. Um, I know that there is
some wetlands on the backside and things
like that. So, there's going to be some
offsets and all that. We'll have to, you
know, cross that bridge when we get
there. But,
>> you understand that this is not a site
plan. This is not anything.
>> It was just um because no uh
>> there there was no test noculation
information for your section of the
property. It was a requirement that um
that it be shown that there that a
building and septic could be placed on
that property in that
>> Yeah, they did. We did do test fits for
septic um and
>> there's like 20 ft of gravel in there,
>> right?
>> Oh yeah, it's all sand.
>> We all know that. Yeah,
>> the uh there is a requirement that you
prove it. And of course,
>> we have a a a B100A from Eastern
Highlands Health District.
Uh and I think it was a 5,000 square
foot building that that
>> Yeah, I believe that's what uh the
survivor put out there. Yes, there
there's the there's the B100A from
Ireland and
yeah, the surveyor
somewhere in these notes.
It's a 5,000 foot building that
So, it's a pretty good size building
with them
that that this preliminary information
shows it can support. So,
>> so you're going to buy all the way out
to the co stack?
>> Yes. The whole piece.
>> Yeah. Everything except for when he took
off in this side.
>> So, yeah, it's going to be all the way
down.
And Ryan, do we have the uh the pins
installed for each of the uh your
corners of the lot line adjustment?
>> I'm sorry, what was that, please?
Replate.
>> Do we have the the monumentation or the
pins uh in place that that delineate
where the lot line adjustment is?
>> Uh that I don't know. Um that's this is
really not Jake's working with a
surveyor for that. Um I know we
requested it. Um and I know you spoke to
him. Did he did you mention that to him?
I I believe they have put them in. I I
can verify with him and if they haven't,
I can come out and restake it. But I'm
pretty positive that they have staked
the uh new property lines.
>> I did have a conversation with your
surveyor to that effect also.
>> Yeah. I thought you did, Wayne. Yeah.
>> Okay. Yeah. So I guess uh you know when
when you set up business over there
that's going to take and I was trying to
look like through the list of different
things and I didn't know what we're
going to call it. So I don't know
whether it's special permit or site plan
review at this time. To me they're about
the same with the exception of the
public hearing. U but that'll go that
way. Uh, you know, I was hoping that
somebody from Ben Franklin would be here
tonight, too, so that we could uh, you
know, make sure that they understood
that since it was a special permit and
Wayne, you can pass that on to them that
uh, you know, we'll be looking for
essentially with
and and again, I don't know because
they're not here to tell us what uh,
they're planning to do, but I think it's
a substantive uh, change to the existing
special permit that was approved. Which
means we have to go through the special
permit process again and and we should
show uh what we plan to do to uh u
remediate the uh digging that was done
that you that you issued the stop work
on. And Wayne, were we able to conclude
that there was no uh pertabation to the
state property there? It's all on uh Ben
Franklin property.
>> As best I can determine by my surveyor's
eyeball,
I I I don't think there was an
intrusion.
>> Okay.
>> But
everything's buried in poison ivy over
there. And I don't try real dark.
So, I think uh unless uh anybody's got
any other questions for uh Jake or Ryan,
u
that's what they came here tonight to
talk to us about.
>> Jed, I have a couple questions.
>> Go ahead.
>> Um one is I don't have the agenda up at
the same time. So, is this just does
this at this point basically an
administrative review that Wayne brought
to the commission?
>> Yeah, I would think that's a good word
for it. It's not a site plan approval.
It's not a
>> there's there's no action for us at this
point. There will be action and so we're
just kind of getting a heads up that uh
that we'll be seeing something else
coming down the road.
>> Okay, that's exactly what I meant. I
really wanted to get the commission's
eyes on because the the u you know the
combined wisdom of the commission is
you know something I still need as a as
a new zoning enforcement officer and
if the commission does not see anything
that that they object to then uh we
should have this filed pretty quickly.
>> Okay. And my other question is for Mr.
Serdam. Um, and I don't know because I'm
not there in person if I if there's a
portion of the map that I can't see. Um,
and somebody mentioned still having the
the Christmas trees in the front, so to
speak, um, at this end at the Dollar
General and Benjamin Franklin end of the
property. Mr. Certium, are you
purchasing or leasing all of the rest of
the land that goes down um, of Mr.
Fitch's land that goes down toward
Bunker Hill Road? I mean, I'm just I'm
trying to understand what portion of
this exactly what portion of this we're
talking about, even though it we it will
it will come up again in the future.
>> Yeah. So, we're purchasing the whole
property minus the area that got cut out
for the Manukuchis.
So, we are purchasing from here all the
way down to the end of Mar Valley where
the turnaround is
>> on. So, you're purchasing everything on
the south side of Route Six,
>> correct? Yes. So, not none of Bunker
Hill is going to be ours. That's all
going to still be Fitch Island Farm. Um,
we're just purchasing the portion that's
across from Extra Mark all the way down,
you know, Mary Valley
that is on that's shown here.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Anything else, Leanne?
>> No.
>> Okay.
Um,
>> is the commission feels comfortable with
this?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> Okay. I guess that's it for you. You
tonight?
>> Sounds good.
>> Free to stay. Free to go.
>> I think I'm going to go.
>> Okay. Very good. Y procedurally so that
>> Ryan and Jake procedurally
somebody's got to come in with the
stamped A2 surveys to file.
>> Okay.
>> And uh I would imagine some uh um
revised deeds too
that reflect this new configuration.
>> Okay.
and just just file them with the town
clerk and town clerk will let me know
and I'll come upstairs, check them over
and sign up.
>> Okay. So, deeds and
>> check with your attorney that day. Yeah.
>> And check with the
>> Yeah. Between me and Ryan, our attorneys
are already in the works of talking. So,
I'm sure between the two of them, we'll
we'll figure it out.
>> Okay.
>> And we'll file that with you once we get
it and I can
>> Oh, with the town clerk, not the town
clerk.
>> The town clerk. Okay.
>> Okay.
>> And uh the survey, is that going to go
to the town clerk as well? Okay,
perfect.
>> Do you want to give building the end use
a couple copies? We'd appreciate it.
>> Okay.
Sound good.
>> Congratulations.
>> Thank you.
Thank you. Good stuff. Make sure you're
entering.
>> Yeah, I'll talk to I got to talk to him
about getting a A2 survey anyway. So, um
I will talk to see can I propose?
Right. I'll I'll see if they have the
pins in. If they don't, I'll have him
put those in. But I'm pretty sure that
he did. But I'll I will double check
with him and make sure that those print
>> right after this. There's nothing I
would think there's nothing that should
say propose down here.
>> Right. Right. Yeah. Now everything's
good and I can let him know that as
well. Um and we'll be moving forward
this as a service. So
Okay. Sounds good. Thank you, gentlemen.
>> Thank you.
>> Yes.
>> Thanks. Yeah, have a good night.
>> Have a good night.
>> Okay, next up is a discussion of
concepts concerning possible zoning
regulation changes.
And this is something that I have worked
on. Uh
we've been talking about some of these
changes for a long long time. Um, my
goal is to
dubtail a couple of these changes in
with uh when we we wrap up the uh the
change to uh Anglo tourism and and make
that just one entry into our
regulations.
The uh and so John, this is where if you
could go to the uh bring up the copy of
our rigs and we'll work through that a
little bit.
All right. So, the the full the full set
of rags here.
>> Yeah. So, if you were to scroll down to
section 4.92 and 4.93.
Okay. So, yeah. So,
back
when we were talking about a rear lot
being developed over on
I guess it's Kendi Road, uh where we
were trying to build a house in the
flood plane over there. Um, we got into
a lot of discussions about the width of
a rear lot and uh, and what we really
wanted was frontage on the rear lot.
And so I crossed out the word width and
put frontage there because that's what
we were want to see
along
along the road.
And uh we I did the same thing in 4.93
and uh that's really all there is to it.
We were trying to apply a width
regulation to give us uh you know make a
lot with without uh sufficient front
edge along the road there and uh and we
said at the time we should change that.
So here it is. Yay.
So I think that's that's pretty easy and
straightforward. We'll we'll come back
to that. It gets a little trickier here
in a minute, but that's that. My goal
tonight is to hear the commission,
you know, make a motion and approve uh
setting a public hearing at some point
on these changes
and we'll dubtail it with one of our
other public hearings coming up. We'll
we'll have a few. Um do you want to now?
>> Nope. I want to get through all these
changes and if there's any of them that
get too hard, I'll cross those off the
list because I want to get these done
that we've been talking about for for
forever.
If you were to go down to section
10.7.2.1
too far.
>> Yep.
>> Okay. So,
there we go. you. Yeah. So, when we were
when we were talking about building this
house over on Hendy Road, uh you know,
there were places where it said you
couldn't do that. And it was pointed out
to us that our regulation discussed new
construction in the flood bone zone. And
that was the rationale for saying it
must be okay because your regulation
says that you can do that. And so I
thought to avoid future issues there, we
would just cross out the word new
construction
because the commission, you know, was
not in favor of building new
construction residential homes in the
floodprone zone with the increasing
flooding and all that kind of stuff.
So that's all that changed.
>> So it just says substantial
improvements. substantial improvements
of any residential structure.
So if there's already a structure and it
could be house or anything else in
there, we're not saying you can't
improve it. We're just saying you can't
build a new one.
>> This is improve the acceptable.
So, all we're doing is saying no, we're
we're getting rid of the loophole that
uh that allows you to think you might be
able to build an infrastructure home
there.
Any questions on that one? And then you
see the uh you know, paragraph two I
eliminated in entirety. If we're not
going to do a new construction home in a
floodprone zone, we're not going to have
any discussion about building a
manufactured home in floodprone zone.
So, we just eliminated all of that.
Okay. Um,
next one is scroll on down to the graph
on section 11.2 for chart.
So, this one's
this one's a little little tougher.
And uh
in this chart, you know, we refer a lot
in our regulations to frontage. We don't
refer very much to whip
and so except for on this chart. And so,
I was replacing the word frontage with
whip.
John, can you increase that
gentleman a little bit?
>> Could I Should I keep going? I I mean,
it's really
>> I can I can read the
>> Okay.
>> The spacing is a little goofy on screen.
>> Yeah, it it it is. And uh probably a
little goofy in the book, too. But uh
but anyhow, so right now we're just
we're just talking about the word
crossing out with putting in frontage to
uh fix up that
that uh
inconsistency where we want a rear lock
to have frontage. We don't want to base
it on the width on whether it's a legal
lie or not.
>> And then what's your limit on frontage
then?
>> Okay, we're going to talk about that
differently. That's a different topic
that we'll get to next.
>> And you got rid of seasonal and
>> Oh yeah, don't talk about that one yet.
We're just I'm going back to the lot on
Hitney Road.
>> Yeah.
>> Where the town owned a little triangle
of of land that precluded him from
having frontage on there and he showed
us a bunch of width calculations that
didn't make sense to me at the time. But
I thought the easiest thing to do is say
we're we're worried about frontage. Now,
we might we might want to put width in
there, too. We'd have a width
requirement because otherwise you could
have a a rear lot that was 50 ft wide
and just go back to getting your 2 and
12 acres. It'd be a really funky looking
lot. But that would be possible if we
don't have width. But
I didn't think about that at the time I
was putting these in here. And so that's
all I did was I fixed the front edge
like we were talking about doing. And we
might want to add something else in
there later. I would not prepare to do
that now. Um if if we get uh if we don't
like that concept then then we'll um
I'll just take that one off the list
with whit.
>> Does she What did John say about that?
Have to ask. Um,
John probably wasn't here when we went
through the history on that, so I really
didn't ask him. John, feel free to chime
in on what your your thought is, but
that was the only thought that I had
there.
>> Yeah. No, I I haven't I don't have the
background on this. I
>> Yeah.
>> Is there And Scott, is there a specific
question you're you
>> Well, what what are we missing? Did you
say anything?
And we could be just, you know, Yeah,
>> I'm I'm kind of a
>> continuous improvement fan and all I
could do is fix them when they come up,
>> right?
>> Um,
>> yes, I still have a problem with this
frontage. I thought all you needed was a
a good width of a driveway because I see
that in a lot of places.
So if we were to go down
underneath that and uh
you know we we we would show hand over
rear district rear lot 40 ft of
frontage. That's how wide that driveway
thing would have to be
>> to go back to the rear flag lot. They
normally go like a rectangle in the back
there. Um, I mean, we were calling it
width, but it wasn't really wid. It was
just that's the front edge of Logan
Road. So, across town width, it puts
frontage in there.
>> The frontage is pretty good, then.
>> Yeah, that's it's it's reasonable. You
can you put a good driveway down there.
Now, we go over to Pine Ridge and he had
just barely 50 ft. And so, when you go
down, you look at ARD open space rear
lot, it's 25. So, he has double lot,
>> two 25- ft strips to get back there. And
uh and he had 50 ft running along the
road there, just barely enough to uh to
allow him to do what he wanted to do.
So, that's that's how that one goes in
with the rear lot discussion.
But as far as width is concerned, when
you're talking about a rear lot, you're
still going to have to have a certain
amount of width because you have the
sideyard,
>> you get set back. Yeah. You know, it's
it's not like he can make this 40 foot
>> thing. uh in the uh you know the
training session we did the ABA training
you know they they were talking about
that guy was told he couldn't build a
house on this lot because he didn't have
the setbacks and he made the house 10 ft
wide about 10 stories high just to you
piss off the play guys and uh to prove
that he could in fact build a house and
it was a funky looking house and
>> he must have had more money than he knew
what to do with because he didn't
but That's so that's that discussion. Um
>> Chad Oh, I'm sorry. Before you leave
this area, could I just note one other
thing that if you're as long as we're
sort of opening this up?
>> Yeah.
>> Um is you know this this um middle
section of the table is is minimum
requirements.
>> Yeah.
>> And the and the right hand column of the
minimum requirements before you get to
maximum requirements is floor area.
>> Um where you've got all these 500s.
>> Yeah. Uh, state law basically eliminated
the town's ability to set a minimum a
minimum square footage for residential
dwellings.
>> Good point. Yes, they did. So, uh, this
would be an easy time to just eliminate
>> that whole column.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, we can do that. Yeah.
>> I think it says elsewhere in the
regulations, the 500 square foot is
mentioned.
>> It does. Yeah.
>> That's got to be dug out, too.
Okay. Um,
>> where are we going next?
>> So, on this same page,
go up a little bit. So, I the first
number that I changed on the front yard
set back.
>> Oh.
>> On 11.2.
Can Can I This is something that So,
when you when you scroll down and when
you get to uh 75 uh Andover Lake
>> Yeah, we we'll get there. But let's
let's start with open space
lot and
>> I can't read.
I can't read the number that was flushed
out, the number that was put in. 20 and
30. Okay. So, 20 and 30.
And the thing that's that's crucial
about the front yard setback is that you
measure that set back for the center
line of the road.
And and so you know if you were to say
that a road was 15 ft
30 ft wide so 15 ft off the center line
we're saying you could be having your
house put on an open space lot
5t from the road. I don't think that's
what we wanted. I think they were
expecting it to be 20t from the edge of
the road. But I was going to uh sort of
be generous and my recommendation was
that we put it 30 feet. So we've got,
you know, most of the the town roads are
are 13 ft wide. That would give you like
12 feet from the road. Uh maybe that's
not enough. I don't know. But I knew
that 20 was not the right answer when
you're measuring from the center line.
>> 30 is better. No.
>> Yeah. So 30 is better than 20. Yeah,
>> might be still too close. I don't know.
But that's just what I put in there.
>> Are there any houses over there that are
that close?
>> Um,
>> is it open?
>> I don't think so. You know, there's some
every now and then you see a real old
house as you're driving down country
roads. It's right out the road. But, you
know, we we certainly wouldn't want
anybody building something new
>> that close to the road.
>> But that's Ann Lake open space. Yeah.
So,
>> no, that's ARD.
>> Yeah, that was the ARD one,
>> not the L.
>> So, that's uh that was the discussion
there. Moving down to the handover lake,
we had it seasonal.
Um,
>> so seasonal
>> and my my thought was that nobody in
this day and age is going to build a
seasonal house on Andover Lake. it just
uh that's not what people are going to
do. They're they're going to build a
year- round house. And so
the issue that I'm trying to avoid here
is that the there are some
properties that did not meet the
requirement for seasonal houses and
they're going to want to go to be a year
round house. And what is the hardship
uh when when they can't meet the 60,000
square foot requirement? Um you know
they're increasing the uh um
the in the in uh what's the word Wayne
for when you're not you're not meeting
the requirement uh mean the
nonconformity.
>> Nonconformity. Yeah. You're increasing
the non-conformity. You can't do that.
So, the guy who's going to make his
house year round, uh, he can't do it
because he can't increase the
non-conformity. So, my thought was,
since we're not going to build any
seasonal houses, let's just get rid of
the seasonal house line. Just put it the
Andover Lake one. Anybody who's on the
lake, you know, that's got a threeseason
house is way short of the require
non-conformity already, but it it avoids
the potential to get into that uh
area that he can't get out of because I
think we would like to have houses
behive
with the section in the regulation for
conversion of SE to
>> what
>> year round
>> I I think uh we would still do a special
permit to convert it
>> looking to make sure you know and it
doesn't have to be a hard special permit
it could be pretty easy I just didn't
want to get rid of it because I didn't
know what the unintended consequences of
that would be but we we eliminate the
need for him to go to the CBA to get the
increased
nonconformity which you can't get then
uh it's not a hardship. No.
>> So that's why I did that
and over lake open space. Um again that
front yard setback I went from 20 to 30
just because you know I was using the
the width of the road from the center
line is maybe 10 ft. It's really 13, but
uh it it keeps it from building the
house right on top of the road.
And then
>> why why is there a 751 there?
>> So an error.
>> That's an error. That's a typo.
>> Yeah, the one should be a superscript
one.
>> Yeah,
>> referring to a footnote.
>> I wasn't changing all the little typos
that are in there. There's there's
plenty of those. Um and we can change
those as we go without a lot of
discussion. I sometimes do uh fix
>> that wouldn't require any kind of
>> No, we just typically correct.
The next one, um,
I started thinking about it today as I
was, you know, trying to figure out why
I was doing what I was doing. And using
the same logic we've already talked
about, business adjacent to an ARD had
the frontage requirement of 10 ft. Okay,
so that would put it in the road.
Um, I was backing that off to 25. But
then I was asking myself, why is it in
the line right above that? If a business
is next to a business, we have a 45 ft
setback, but if you're next to a
residence, we only need something
smaller. It seems to me it should be
bigger, not smaller. And so, you know,
my thought was that 25 ft wasn't
right. Um, maybe it should be 45 the
same at least. And, uh, I'd be happy
with with doing that. But, uh, it
doesn't make any sense to me that if
you're next to a residence, you'd have a
smaller setback. You'd want a bigger.
So, my, uh, my thought at this point is
I'll change that from 25 to 45. Make it
just like the line above.
Okay. And I think that was
that might be all the changes that I was
proposing on that chart. And anybody
have any questions or comments on the
changes to the chart that uh fixes up a
lot of rough spots that I thought we
had.
Okay. Um
now if we go down to section 19
which is the kennels. What is the lot?
Go back to I want to see the lot
coverage. Is that still there?
>> What's that?
>> Black coverage.
>> Um, yeah, it's still there.
>> It's in one of the righth hand columns.
Maximum requirements, lot coverage.
So, the one we were just talking about,
lot coverage.
>> Yeah,
>> those are both 50%.
>> No, Andover Lake.
>> Oh, Andover Lake.
>> 12%.
Uh, you're at 12.
>> Yeah.
>> And yeah, 10 for a rear.
>> So, we figure that out
>> for the uh was all a lot.
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
I did not figure that out. I figured
with the it is in the nutrient
allocation.
Um he's I mean I can bring that up but I
I did look at it. It's not 10%. It's not
12%.
>> Lot he's
>> if he's Yeah. He's about a 2acre lot.
That that gives you a little over 10,000
square feet.
>> Yeah. So we we'll check. That's a good
thing to check.
>> The nutrient allocation plan does
capture those numbers.
It does.
But
okay, any other questions on on this
particular chart?
>> Okay, let's go down to section 19.
>> 19. I'm on 192. Where are we going?
Yeah. Well, start at the top. I can't
remember. And and it was a very simple
concept, but
Okay. Yep. Scroll scroll down till you
get some changes here. And in the intent
of this is when
there
>> be well so there's a lot there's a lot
of things that reference
in addition to the requirements of
section 19.2.6.
Yeah, I don't think there is a 19.2 2.6.
We'll see in a minute. But, you know,
cuz honestly, I thought that was 19.1.6.
We We'll find out how big an error I
made there. That's why we go through
that with you guys. Um,
>> didn't make sense.
>> 2.6.
>> Yeah. Scroll down to 19.2.6. Just see
what that is.
19.2.6.
Sorry, I bypassed it. 192 2.1.2.2
>> three and that's it. There is no point6.
>> That's why you know there was there was
a lot of that going on in there and so I
tried to you know wherever it said
reference something I tried to look at
it and and see if there was anything
there.
Um,
but anyhow, when we went through BB's
kennel,
we concluded somehow that for a class A
kennel, you didn't need to have a public
hearing.
And
BB's property was 200 acres out there.
And so I wasn't worried about the impact
on the neighbors with with this small
kennel that he had. But I could just see
somebody with a,
you know, two acre lot, three acre lot.
I think it talks about the minimum size
for the kennel. Um, I can't imagine the
neighbors not wanting to get a vote on
what's going on with that kennel. And so
I tried to change the words so that
every kennel would require a special
permit
and that's
yeah so
in 19.2 to when we were going through
BB's Denn because you know Bart Gr was
uh you know we had discussions about
well we we didn't do a public hearing
and uh we came through it that under
19.2 2 says the following uses are
permitted subject to commission approval
and it's all the type A kennel stuff.
Then I wanted to pull words in there
that we would have a public hearing and
it would be a special permit just like I
said at the top.
So that's what all those changes ought
to allude to as you go through there.
Should we just make every every kennel
is now a special permit with public
hearing.
Okay. Um
and that was all that I have in there
right now. John, if you could scroll
back up to 7 A 0.9.
This is the Lake District.
There's one more change I'd like to just
run by everybody here. Okay. So,
I guess scroll up to uh the the use
above that 7A
whatever I'm looking for the where it
talks about garage
>> garage accessory. Yeah, it's
garage.
>> Okay.
No, it's up.
>> No, no, it's it's in that right in
there.
>> Yeah. Okay. Right in that range.
>> Nope. You're
>> right there. 7.0.3.
>> 7.0.3.
Okay. So, it says,
and that's what he has a right to have.
No special permit, no site plan review,
no nothing. If you're in the Lake
District, you're allowed to have a
twocar garage.
We know in the Lake District there are
places where there is more than a twocar
garage. And we've played the game of
well, it's not a garage, it's a
she-shed.
And u looks like a garage to me. And uh
so I was thinking that I would add down
as 70.9
garages holding more than two motor
vehicles. We could do it by a special
permit. And if you're in one of those
those little lots that has an eighth of
an acre, no, you can't get a uh a big
extra garage in there. But if you had a
two acre spot or something like that,
you wanted more than a twocar garage,
put a special permit. Yeah, we could do
that.
Um because I really don't know how we've
gotten well I don't know how we've
gotten away with all these bigger
garages in Lake District than what was
uh said there. But I figure we'd clear
it up. Tell somebody if they want a
bigger garage, put in a special permit.
If it makes sense with the lot you got,
then you can do it. If it doesn't, then
you can uh go that way.
So that uh that would be one extra
extra change that not in there yet that
I would go add to it in and uh
so at some point hold a public hearing.
I don't know when that public hearing
would be quite yet. We'll I'll get with
Wayne to figure it out. We'll vote on
that at the next one. But is there
anything that the commission is
uncomfortable with that we've talked
about tonight?
No.
>> Okay. Very good. So, Scott, we're one
step closer. Can we get
just a little bit?
>> Oh, go ahead, Wayne.
>> I wanted to stay in that lake. In that
lake, the section, the lake.
>> Okay, I'll put it back.
>> Add a word.
>> So, the one about the twocar garage.
That's the lake district.
>> Okay. Can you can you go up
>> just a little bit where it talks about
accessory structures
and the accessory buildings?
It's as of right accessory uses right
there. Accessory uses in buildings uh
within 50 ft of the high water mark. Uh
can we add the word structure there to
or should we add the word structure
there to include
decks and things like that that are
attached to the ground
that aren't considered buildings
and not and and they don't, you know,
they're not extended out into the lake.
They're not
>> So, if it's a house, you got to be 75 ft
from the water,
>> right? And and again the area where this
came to play was uh one of the one of
the houses wanted to build a deck and
and essentially the deck was like 5 ft
from the water. It was very small lot.
Um
>> right.
>> Yes. I I assumed that
so a building is something that's got a
roof on it that is permanent.
A structure doesn't have a roof on it,
>> but it's attached but is attached to the
ground.
>> Could be attached to the ground. And so
that would be like a deck.
>> And should we be able to build a deck
within 50 ft
of the high water margin?
>> I'm just posing the question.
>> Yeah. No, it's it's good. That might
take some thought, but again, we're
we've got time to deliberate on it
because we're not even set the public
hearing yet. We're going to put that in
there.
>> Understand there's a fine line between a
structure which is attached to the
ground and you can you could argue a
floating a deck.
>> Yeah.
>> That's just
>> buildings. Buildings are structures, but
structures don't have to be built,
>> right?
>> But you can construct a deck
>> that that is just sitting on top of
concrete pucks, not attached to the
ground. It goes up and down with the
>> There's structures over there built over
the lake.
There are buildings have
>> um you'd have to have a car to allow a
dock.
>> Yeah, because
other than a dock. I know one myself.
>> Well, there is a car for ducks in the
regulations.
>> It's a it's a roofed building that's
right on the edge.
>> Yeah, I I struggle with the lake. I
mean, I'm new to town. I mean the lake
is the lake wouldn't be what it is
>> today if
it
>> is it more than a shed that you're
talking about Scott because I know I
know there's a structure like a you know
>> place to have a you know gather
>> like a uh
>> a roofed structure
>> like a roof uh boat uh boat lift or
something like that or
>> no it's a structure to have
>> okay not aware and and sometimes you You
get something that's grandfathered in if
it's been there for a long time.
>> Been there a long time.
>> Yeah, probably. But but would we want
that kind of thing
going in now or would we like to keep it
50 ft from
the lake? There's a lot of uh well I
know there are a lot of sheds that uh I
don't know how they got where they are.
They just get put in because they're
right up on the lot line and they're
right down next to the water. Then uh
And so that wouldn't be allowed here
anyhow unless you were to go and get a
variance for it in the ZBA saying what
your hardship is. But uh
>> it would be awful to
>> I'm okay with putting changing that to
uh make it building/structure shall not
be within 50 ft of established high
water lake and then we can uh we can
talk about it uh as we deliberate which
you we get the public hearing we can do
that we deliberate on it after we can
check it
>> could be a solution in search of a
problem for all I know. Well, again, you
what I like is when we
we all assumed that you couldn't build a
deck within 50 ft of the lake and then
it comes into No, it's a building
doesn't say structure.
>> That was the topic of a recent ZBA
>> reversal of a
>> and we're allowed to learn from those
things
>> decision.
>> So, I will add that uh add that to this
list here. Okay.
Any other concerns or comments at this
point?
Okay, that uh that concludes that item.
Um,
so at this point,
I would like to make a motion that the
planning and zoning
commission enter executive session for
the purpose of discussing where we are
in the restoration process with a gravel
bid on Route 6. Personal invited to the
session include all commission members,
CEO and town planner.
Looking for a second on that.
>> A second.
>> Thank you, Ann. Um, any discussion?
>> No.
>> And it won't take it won't take long.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. So, so the way this would have
because we're in a hybrid situation,
um, and I could be wrong, but it looks
like the only person
I don't know if if there's any
non-commissioners in the room other than
>> Wayne who's invited.
>> So then we're really just talking about
K. Hutchinson, I believe, right,
Katherine?
>> Probably at this point. Yeah.
>> So, we would at this point, we probably
have to ask her to leave.
Um,
oh, okay.
>> Because you've got Leanne and Anmarie
online.
>> Uh, I mean, I suppose I could set up a I
could set up a breakout room, I suppose,
and and bring you guys
>> I Okay. And I tried to figure out, you
know, I said, well, it works out okay.
Everybody here in the room is invited,
so it's easy. I didn't know that there
there would be another How about trying
it and see? Okay, I can I could I'll
create I'll create a a breakout room and
and bring everyone over to it other than
Katherine.
>> Okay. So, I'd ask uh So, Wayne, you'll
have to jump over to the room.
>> I did.
do on the other computer or
>> I I don't I see you up on the screen
here. I'm I'm not
>> I can shut my Zoom off at this point.
>> Okay. Yeah, turn your Zoom off. We're
We're close to the end. You're getting
needed.
But somebody's got to jump over.
Somebody's got to jump from the the room
here. I think you have to click on
>> I think do
>> join from Mac.
>> John,
>> we're recording again.
>> So, Marina, I don't know if you're still
with us, but uh when we did uh get to
the breakout room, we recognized that we
had not voted on that motion. We did
take a vote and the vote was uh
unanimous you 500. So we did comply with
the requirement to vote on the motion.
Next up is correspondence. Wayne
correspondence. I have no correspondence
to report. Um,
I do I do want to let the commission
know that uh there are uh two lots on
Bunker Hill Road in the uh process of of
submitting site plans
to construct residences.
One is5
Bucker Hill Road. The other one and I
can't recall the number. It's on the top
of the hill there, across the street
from the farm. Both of these are that
lot across the street from the farm.
That that has to be uh that still has to
be approved to to build on. That's in
the process of doing the Burke test and
all that good stuff.
The 115,
that's a former that that's one of
Nisa's subdivision lots. So,
both me and Joe looked at the at the
preliminary site plans for that and it's
looking good.
I can report at 243 Longill Road, which
is been a longstanding
it's one it's another stone house that
um nothing did that has had a building
permit for it for quite some time.
There's actually some buildings starting
there.
>> I see
>> which is good to see.
>> Yeah,
>> we have a residence going up at 59
Gerardi
that has zoning the wetlands approvals.
>> Wow. Seems like all of a sudden we got
some building. Yeah. Last year nobody
was building. I
>> think 63 long hill sold 35,000 over
asking by 35.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. The uh that's the other
>> family. The family moved in. Very nice.
>> Yeah.
The um Pinidge the
Korea career.
>> Right.
>> George George um he's informed me that
by email that he did complete the work.
I've yet to go out there and verify it.
He informed me last
Thursday or something like that. So I
got to take a ride out there and visit
with them and see what he did.
people that Scott knows three years
later
Moose
and I did have someone come in an
individual his name is I don't need to
say his name u older gentleman has a
property on Route Six sort of where u
where Merit Valley across the road from
where Meritt Valley where Hay uh Merit
Valley used to end um 627 or 6. He's got
a little over he's got five acres plus
or minus there on either side of the
rail trail.
And he was talking about he he wanted to
he had this concept of of uh
elderly housing using small wart
buildings.
So
I told him his best thing to do would be
to bring that to the commission as as a
as an idea, as a concept.
But then in my further, you know, I I
did go take a closer look at that
property and it's it's all mostly in a
in a flood plane and u I'll need to have
a discussion with him about that.
That's really all I have to report.
Okay. Any questions for Wayne?
>> Have you heard from the AI company that
wants to move in?
>> H I think they disappeared dropped their
gown away.
>> So, they're not going to pursue that.
>> No, they they looked at Lyn they did
look at Lyn Lyn Holton's corners um but
nothing happened with that. Um, that
property that they were looking at at
Skinner Hill is in contingency now
>> with someone else.
>> Was it? I don't know too. We'll just I
just
>> see it on realtor.com.
It's in contingency. And then I noticed
that that 45 acre lot on the Wheeling
Road that's listed. Uh there's a a
concept for 13 uh 13
residences 13 resident subdivision on
that 45 acres that the real estate
company is pitching.
>> Interesting.
>> And that's been there forever.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, they they seem to be
pushing it now.
It's going to be like a community like
an association or just
>> No, just it looks like it. It's nothing.
It's just something a real estate agent
is
>> putting out there. You know, here buy
this. You can do this and I'll make a
good commission.
>> Okay.
Inland wetlands. Uh got nothing to
report there. And uh John, you got
anything?
>> Uh just a couple of quick things just as
a note. Um, I participated uh last month
after our planning and zoning meeting in
uh along with Eric and several people
from Crag and other towns in a um Route
Six and Hop River uh safety audit. We we
took bikes um all the way from Town Hall
all the way into Bolton Notch to take a
look at Route Six and Hop River
crossings
um to ideally prioritize some
intersection upgrades, but um they'll
they'll likely be expensive and and you
know somewhat on the distant horizon,
but it was a good it was a good u audit.
Um I'm also participating at Eric's
request in a uh Crag public safety
meeting. at the beginning of September.
Um, you know, and largely, you know,
several town representatives are
requested and obviously uh Andover is a
little bit low on its um public works
staff right now. So, I'll be
participating uh possibly along with
Eric at the beginning of next month.
And then also of note, I'll be sitting
in on a CROG and CCM
um housing session tomorrow uh to to
I think probably outline and possibly
roll out a potential strategy for Krogs
and CCM's involvement in the special
legislative session that is still
planned but unscheduled for September to
address the um housing legislation that
the governor vetoed in June. um and and
we'll be looking potentially for, you
know, some alternative uh approaches to
that legislation um for the special
session. So, I'll be participating in
that tomorrow. Um and we'll we'll stay
tuned.
>> Okay. Thank you, John.
Moving on to public speak.
Katherine Hutchinson, you got anything
for us tonight?
>> No, thank you.
Okay.
>> Contrary to usual,
I don't have anything to ask or say
other than I'm very interested in what
the legislature, if there is a special
session next in September, does.
>> Yeah, should be interesting.
Approval of the minutes from July 17th.
I'll make a motion to approve the
minutes from the public hearing in the
regular meeting that were held on
Tuesday, July 15th, 2025.
>> Secondly,
just trying to uh check the calendar
here. One place said July 17th. The
minutes themselves said July 15th.
July 15th it was. So, yeah. So, the
minutes were correct with the date and
seconded. Any discussion on the minutes?
>> Uh, no discussion, but I'll have to
abstain. I don't think I was at that
meeting.
>> Okay.
Um,
gotcha.
The uh the only
the only thing I found uh was a nit on
the old business with planet
conservation develop quality life
chapter three lines up from the bottom
of that first paragraph. The planning
zoning commission to do make a
difference should be due to make a
difference. Uh I think uh what can the
planning and zoning commission do to
make a difference? So we just flip those
two words around.
That's uh pretty insignificant in the
big scheme of things. Any other comments
on the minutes?
Make a motion to approve the minutes as
amended.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you. Another second. Uh
call for vote. Leanne.
>> Hi.
>> Scott.
>> Leanne,
>> you're muted. Leanne.
>> Sorry. Um I
>> Okay. Amarie,
>> I abstain.
>> And I vote I as well. So the motion
passes
with Ann Marie abstaining.
I didn't see her voice if I don't see
her mouth move.
>> Next regularly scheduled meeting will be
September 16th
to be held as a hybrid meeting.
Any other comments before we adjourn
this evening? Wayne, one of the things
we uh we did not do, so we'll do it the
next meeting. you had some changes you
wanted to make to the uh
gravel bit section.
>> Yes.
>> And we didn't go through those tonight.
So, we'll we'll do those at the next
meeting. And then after that discussion,
we'll make it a uh
motion to hold public hearing on.
Sounds good.
Anybody else?
I make a motion to adjourn.
>> Second.
>> Who second it?
>> Yes.
>> Thank you. All in favor say
>> I.
>> Any opposed?
Any abstain? No. Motes has a 500 Z.
Thank you very much everybody. story to
keep people late.